[Music]
worst-case scenario so brutal oops how
will you survive you might be surprised
to find out how much geography skills
can help you fend off doom by geography
I mean analyzing the world around you
one geographic concept that could really
help you out in a zombie apocalypse is
movement
so first what moves people move animals
move and all sometimes slowly zombies
move as well but that's not all goods
move too goods can be resources such as
food supplies and weapons people or
zombies tend to move these so if you see
a big pile of zombie supplies where
there wasn't one before you're probably
on the trail ideas also move ideas can
include entertainment zombie movies news
and information about zombie attacks an
architecture or how to build a safe
shelter and second why do people or
zombies move when people animals or
zombies move it's called migration two
concepts that affect migration are push
and pull factors push factors will make
you want to leave somewhere pull factors
make you want to go to a place a lack of
resources unstable economy or high crime
rate might be push factors making people
want to move nice weather a good economy
or lots of resources would be pull
factors for lots of people enticing them
to move while zombies are definitely a
push factor for humans a city full of
people would be a pull factor for
macer want to eat humans there are some
things that make movement easier for
people or zombies waterways and highways
can make traveling faster moving across
clear open space is easier than a tough
terrain and just as landforms can create
boundaries that affect movement so can
political boundaries like a border gate
for example so how can you analyze these
movement factors to help your chance of
survival there are three basic steps 1
identify the points or locations to
analyze what are your options to find
what connects them are there highways
waterways or open land and 3 find the
patterns of movement that happen over
that connection do people or goods move
across it by comparing relationships
between different places you can see
what connections they have for example
pick two cities look at the highway
connecting them if people use that
highway to commute to work those cities
have a strong relationship but this
other city over here doesn't have a
direct connection to the other cities
there's even a river in the way it
doesn't have as strong of a relationship
fo so started here which city would you
rather start out in where would you flee
to so how do you decide where to go in a
zombie apocalypse do you just run in a
random direction or do you use your
Geographic skills to lead your camp of
survivors to safety if you want to stay
alive it helps to understand how and why
we move
you